# 3584_ClosestCommonParent

made by Jaehyeok Choi

## What is the problem?

https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/3584

## What Algorithm should I use?

Graph Algorithm , dfs

## What was the key point and the hard part?

I just use dfs to solve this.

Starting from 2 nodes that we want to find , save all distance with other nodes.

Find the min of (distance from node1 + distance from node2) , that node is the answer.

After solving this problem , I thought there should be another way.

I found one interesting approach.

LCA algorithm

I don't know this algorithm but I heard it before. The algorithm is by jumping 2^k times at a time and find the LCA.

We use 2d array to save parent of nodes. parent[node's number][x] (parent[y][x] means y node's 2^x parent node number).
parent [x][y] will be -1 if it does not exist.

To fill up parent array we use dp. Because x^(k+1) = x^k + x^k. parent[x][k+1] = parent[parent[x][k]][k].

Then find more deeper node1, and before node2 are in the same of node1, jump node2 to node1's depth.

Jumping will be 2^k node1 = parent[node1][k].

Then if parent[node1][k] != parent[node2][k] and it is not empty(!= -1) , it means we did not found the LCA until 2^k  parent. (k start from log2(the number of nodes))

So, jump up to 2^k (node = parent[node][k])

At the end, we have same parent , so node = parent[node][0] (node's parent) will be the answer.

I think I should try it later.
 
## Where can I get more help, if I need it?

You can contact me through email, which is wogur7496@gmail.com.
Thank you for visiting this github!
