# 16493_MaximumPageNumber

made by Jaehyeok Choi

## Welcome to Jaehyeok's github!

## What is the problem?

https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/16493

## What Algorithm should I use?

dynamic programming

## What was the key point and the hard part?

Same problem with knapsack algorithm that I solved.

There is 2 options when you have the chapter to read.

1. Read it

2. Not read it

Now , let's assume that we only have the first chapter in the example.

example

5 3

2 100

2 20

2 40

Then N is smaller than 2 , we cannot read anything because first chapter take 2 day to read.

From 2 to N , the maximum page number you can read is 100.

Next , let's assume that we have the first chapter (2, 100) and second chapter (2, 20).

When N is 2, there is 2 option. 1. read the first chapter 2. read the second chapter.

1 option is saved before (100) in the location of dp[i-1][j].

2 option is same with starting from day (current day - 2(days to read the second chapter) ) + read the second chapter(2,20).

So, we have to find the maximum value and save it in the dp, which is 100 at the N == 2 to 3 and 120 at the N == 4 to 5.

Dp array have the maximum page that I can read corresponding to the day I have.

Finally, let's assume we have first , second ,third chapter.

The maximum value in case of we have first and second book is saved in the dp[i-1] array.

We are going to compare dp[i-1][j] and dp[i-1][j- 2(days to read the third chapter)] + read the third chapter (2, 40).

dp[i-1][5(N)] = 120 

N == 3 (N-2(days to read the third chapter)) dp[i-1][3] is 100 as I said before + 40 (reading the third chapter) = 140.

So, 140 is the answer for the example.

## Where can I get more help, if I need it?

You can contact me through email, which is wogur7496@gmail.com.
Thank you for visiting this github!
