# 2302_TheaterSeats

made by Jaehyeok Choi

## Welcome to Jaehyeok's github!

## What is the problem?

https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/2302 

## What Algorithm should I use?

dynamic programming

## What was the key point and the hard part?

The hard part was I miss the situation that M == 0, M == N and VIP seat is in continuouse sequence.

If ith seat is VIP seat, that seat are taken by VIP. In this case , we can say that (possible cases until VIP seat) * 1(VIP) * (possible cases after VIP seat to next VIP seat).

This means cut the length if VIP seat appear and save it. After that, multiply all possible cases in sections. (I saved this in the queue)

However, If I save the VIP[i](3) - VIP[i-1](2) -1 in the middle, zeros comes in to the queue which makes the problem.

So, I make the dp[0] = 0 and check the case if M == 0 or M ==N. In those case, we don't have to check the VIP seat. Just print out the dp[N] or 1 will work.

Please don't forget this situation. I was literally got confused...

Then , how to find the dp? Let's say we have 1,2,3 seats without VIP seat.

1. The possible case will be 1.

2. The possible cases will be 12 , 21.

3. The possible cases will be 132 , 123 , 213.

As we can see, there is 2 options when new seats are added at the end.

1. Put last number in the last seat.

2. Put last number in the (last-1) seat.

In second case, the number(last-1) can be in the last seat or (last-2) seat.

Putting the number (last -1) to (last-2) seat cases are already counted in (i-1) case, we only have to check the (last) (last-1) case.

(i-1) (last)

(i-2) (last) (last-1)

So, the the number of (i-1) case + the number of (i-2) case will be i's cases. Found it! 


## Where can I get more help, if I need it?

You can contact me through email, which is wogur7496@gmail.com.
Thank you for visiting this github!
